DOC-1151/VOP-000: Single-page guide (#344)
swan-io/docs: docs/topics/payments/credit-transfers/sepa/verification-of-payee.mdx

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

Validate beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

:::info Mandatory compliance
Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025** for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.
:::

## Overview {#overview}

> **Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a new European service that validates beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims to reduce payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.

Author: ```suggestion
**Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a new European service that checks beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims to reduce payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.
```

VoP will be particularly helpful to prevent Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, where fraudsters impersonate legitimate beneficiaries to misdirect funds.

### Key benefits {#benefits}

For your integration:
- **Reduced disputes**: Prevent misdirected payments and customer support tickets
- **Better user experience**: Build trust through transparent payment verification
- **Operational efficiency**: Fewer payment failures and reversals to handle

> For the end-users:

Reviewer: For your end-users:

- **Fraud protection**: Ensure the funds go to the intended recipient
- **Error prevention**: Catch typos and formatting issues early
- **Payment confidence**: Know transfers will reach the intended recipient

### Coverage {#coverage}

VoP applies to all countries in the SEPA zone. Payment Service Providers (PSPs) have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

| Payment Services Provider location | VoP mandatory date |
| --- | --- |
| 🇪🇺 Eurozone | October 9, 2025 |
| 🌏 Non-Eurozone | January 9, 2027 |

The service is **free of charge** for Swan account holders as mandated by the regulation.

## How VoP works {#how-vop-works}

### High-level flow {#high-level-flow}

> VoP validation happens before payment authorization through this standardized process:

Reviewer: Can we write this more simply? i.e. VOP happens before sending money to a beneficiary, through this process:

1. **VoP required**: All SEPA Credit Transfers must be verified before authorization
2. **Verification request**: Swan sends VoP request to the beneficiary's bank (Responding PSP)
3. **Verification response**: The beneficiary's bank responds with verification result

> 4. **Result displayed**: VoP result and associated warnings are shown to the end-customer

Reviewer: end-user

    EU->>P: Enters beneficiary details
    P->>S: Triggers VoP
    S->>S: Generates VoP result
    S->>P: Verification results
    P->>EU: Displays VoP greenlight/warnings

    Note over EU: Reviews the results

    EU->>EU: Decides: Proceed or Cancel

    %%{init: {
        'theme': 'base',
        'themeVariables': {
            'primaryColor': '#6240b5',
            'primaryTextColor': '#271a48',
            'primaryBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'lineColor': '#a18cd3',
            'secondaryColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryColor': '#ffffff',
            'background': '#ffffff',
            'mainBkg': '#ffffff',
            'secondBkg': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryBkg': '#6240b5',
            'activationBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'activationBkgColor': '#c0b3e1',
            'sequenceNumberColor': '#ffffff',
            'sectionBkgColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'altSectionBkgColor': '#ffffff',
            'gridColor': '#e5e7eb',
            'disabledBkgColor': '#f3f4f6',
            'disabledTextColor': '#9ca3af',
            'fontSize': '16px',
            'fontFamily': '"Inter", "Segoe UI", system-ui, sans-serif'
        }
    }}%%
```

> ### Possible VoP results {#vop-results}

Reviewer: They're not really "possible" - these are the only results available correct?

    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="close" label="⚠️ Close match">
    **Result**: Close match with suggested correction from beneficiary's bank
    
    **Customer action**: Review suggested name correction before proceeding
    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![VoP Close match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_close_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="no-match" label="❌ No match">
    **Result**: No match found between provided details and account holder information
    
    **Customer action**: Verify beneficiary details carefully before proceeding
    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![VoP No match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_no_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="not-possible" label="❌ Verification not possible">

>     **Result**: Beneficiary's bank cannot perform verification (service unavailable or not supported)

Author: ```suggestion
    **Result**: IBAN verification failed. Check the IBAN format, try again, or contact the recipient's bank if the issue persists.
```

    
    **Customer action**: Proceed without verification
    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![Verification not possible mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_verif_not_possible.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip VoP enables informed decisions

> Verification of Payee doesn't block payments. It provides verification results so customers can make informed decisions about proceeding or aborting. All verification results allow payment to continue.

Reviewer: Replace customers with users or end users - across the whole page.

Reviewer: Match the wording with the UX - cancelling vs aborting. 

This section seems to repeat itself a little - can we make more concise?

"All verification results still allow the payment to continue".

:::

### Specific cases {#specific-cases}

#### Standing Orders {#standing-orders}

VoP applies to Standing Orders with two key differences:

> - **Initial verification only**: VoP happens only at the initiation stage when creating the Standing Order

Reviewer: Should this be when "scheduling a Standing Order" - this is what we call it in the product.

> - **Existing Standing Orders**: Previously authorized Standing Orders do not need to be verified - only new Standing Orders created on or after October 9, 2025 will require VoP

Reviewer: Comma after 2025. 

require "a" VoP.

#### Bulk payments for company accounts {#bulk-payments}

> Company accounts can opt-out of receiving VoP on their bulk SEPA credit transfers through a dedicated mutation.

Reviewer: Do we have this mutation yet? If not - we should say its coming.

## Integration flows for VoP {#integration-flows}

> Swan offers two integration approaches depending on your UX requirements and development constraints to ensure partners can offer a compliant integration from Day 1:

Reviewer: More simple - and not necessary to say Day 1. 

Swan provides two integration options based on your user experience (UX) needs and development limitations to ensure a compliant integration.

<div className="row margin-bottom--lg">
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card" style={{height: '100%', backgroundColor: '#fffbf0', border: '1px solid #ffeaa7'}}>
      <div className="card__header">

>         <h3>Option 1:</h3>

Reviewer: Remove colon - it's a heading.

>         <h3>➡️ Synchronous verification</h3>

Reviewer: Can we make this heading more user focused - its not really clear what we mean by synchronous.

      </div>
      <div className="card__body">

>         <p><strong>Swan handles verification during payment initiation</strong></p>

Reviewer: I believe in both cases it's Swan who is handling the verification - it's just that one the UX is done by the Partner. 

This is missing in this section.

Swan automatically verifies the beneficiary information when a credit transfer is initiated?

        <ul>

>           <li>Zero development effort for single credit transfers</li>

Reviewer: No development is required for single SEPA credit transfers.

          <li>Swan displays VoP results in consent screen</li>

>           <li>Best for: Quick compliance, existing integrations</li>

Reviewer: Quick compliance, and existing integrations.

        </ul>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card" style={{height: '100%', backgroundColor: '#f0f9f0', border: '1px solid #d4edda'}}>
      <div className="card__header">
        <h3>Option 2:</h3>
        <h3>☑️ Pre-validation of details</h3>
      </div>
      <div className="card__body">
        <p><strong>Verify beneficiaries before payment initiation</strong></p>
        <ul>

>           <li>Full control over verification UX</li>

Reviewer: Complete control over the VoP UX - consistency.

Reviewer: Full stops at the end of bullets.

          <li>Custom error handling and user guidance</li>
          <li>Best for: Enhanced user experience, complex payment flows</li>
        </ul>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

> ### Payment type support {#payment-support}

Reviewer: Supported payment types - consistency with similar headings we have in other documentation.

> | Payment Type | Option 1: Synchronous | Option 2: Pre-validation | Notes |

Reviewer: Payment type

| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Single Credit Transfers** | ✅ Supported | ✅ Supported | Systematic VoP is required |

Reviewer: What is "systematic VoP" - if we're introducing new concepts - make sure to explain them.

| **Bulk Credit Transfers** | ❌ Not Supported | ✅ Supported | Opt-out available for corporate use |

> | **Standing Orders** | ✅ Supported | ✅ Supported | Verification required for initial setup only |

Reviewer: Verification is only required when scheduling Standing Orders.

<!--
| **Internal Accounts** | 🚧 Coming soon | 🚧 Coming soon | Legal requirements being finalized |
-->

> ### Detailed options flows {#detailed-flows}

Reviewer: Would rework the flow of this - keep the Options content together and then move into the Supported payment types - or switch them around - otherwise they seem quite repetitive.

Author: Do you mean something like this:
```
## Integration flows for VoP
[intro and two-card overview]

### Supported payment types
[ttable here, right after introducing the options]

### Option 1: Default verification
[All Option 1 details together]

### Option 2: Custom verification  
[All Option 2 details together, including the detailed flow diagrams]
```

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph Option2 ["🟢 Option 2: Pre-validation"]
        direction TB
        A2["User enters beneficiary details"] --> B2["Beneficiary verification (VoP)<br/>via verifyBeneficiary mutation"]
        B2 --> C2["Custom UX handling"]
        C2 --> D2["User submits payment"]
        D2 --> E2["initiateCreditTransfers with beneficiaryToken"]
        E2 --> F2["Consent screen"]
        F2 --> G2["Payment authorized"]
        G2 --> H2["Transfer completed"]
    end

    subgraph Option1 ["🟡 Option 1: Synchronous"]
        direction TB
        A1["User enters payment details"] --> B1["User submits payment"]

>         B1 --> C1["initiateCreditTransfers"]

Reviewer: Highlight that this is a mutation that's used. As opposed to just the words.

    classDef invisible fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,color:transparent
    classDef subgraph1 fill:#fffbf0,stroke:#ffeaa7,stroke-width:2px,rx:16,ry:16
    classDef subgraph2 fill:#f0f9f0,stroke:#d4edda,stroke-width:2px,rx:16,ry:16
    
    %% Option 1 styling
    class A1 input
    class B1,C1,D1,E1 process
    class F1 success
    class G1 transfer
    
    %% Option 2 styling
    class A2 input
    class B2,D2,E2,F2 process
    class C2 custom
    class G2 success
    class H2 transfer
    
    class Option1 subgraph1
    class Option2 subgraph2
```
</div>

### Option 1: Synchronous verification {#option-1}

For single credit transfers, partners don't have to do anything - Swan will run the VoP check at the initiation of the credit transfer and display the VoP result in the consent screen.

⚠️ **Option 1 is not available for Bulk Credit Transfers**. For bulk credit transfers, use Option 2 or if you have company customers, opt-out of VoP via the dedicated mutation.

### Option 2: Pre-validation of details {#option-2}

Call the `verifyBeneficiary` mutation before initiating transfers to get full control over the verification user experience.

> #### Verification workflow {#verification-workflow}

Reviewer: It's not really a workflow - user flow?

> 1. **Verify beneficiary**: Call `verifyBeneficiary` with IBAN and name

Reviewer: Call the X mutation using an IBAN and account holder name.

2. **Get result**: Receive Match, Close match, No match or Verification not possible
3. **Inform end-user**: Display appropriate messaging based on verification result

> 4. **User proceeds**: End-user can choose to proceed with payment regardless of result

Reviewer: User vs end-user - consistency - don't forget the joining words like "the"

The end-user can choose to proceed with the payment regardless of the result.

> 5. **Use token**: Add beneficiary token to credit transfer

Reviewer: We don't mention when they receive this token? Is there a step between 4+5?

Author: > We don't mention when they receive this token? Is there a step between 4+5?

It has been moved to the "coming soon" section because of unsure specs, but it's the result of the verifyBeneficiary call. The whole purpose of it actually :)

    I --> L
    J --> L
    K --> L
    
    L --> M["Initiate transfer with beneficiary token"]
    M --> N["User gives consent"]
    N --> O["Payment authorized"]
    
    classDef default fill:#ffffff,stroke:#6240b5,stroke-width:1px,color:#271a48,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef input fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef decision fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:20,ry:20
    classDef success fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef warning fill:#f59e0b,stroke:#d97706,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef error fill:#ef4444,stroke:#dc2626,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef process fill:#f8f7fc,stroke:#c0b3e1,stroke-width:1px,color:#4e3391,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef final fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef invisible fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,stroke-width:0px,color:transparent
    
    class A input
    class C decision
    class D success
    class E warning
    class F,G error
    class B,I,J,K process
    class L,M,N,O final
    class H invisible
```

</div>

> #### Custom UX examples {#custom-ux-examples}

Reviewer: Are these supposed to be all for the saved beneficiary step? The screenshots are inaccurate.

Examples of how to present VoP verification results in your web banking interface during the "Custom UX handling" step:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="match" label="✅ Match" default>
    ![VoP Match web banking screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_match.png)
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="close" label="⚠️ Close match">
    ![VoP Close match web banking screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_close_match.png)
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="no-match" label="❌ No match">
    ![VoP No match web banking screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_no_match.png)
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="not-possible" label="❌ Verification not possible">
    ![Verification not possible web banking screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_no_verif.png)
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

---

> ## Coming soon {#coming-soon}

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this? We should remove this and just leave the section that there are changes coming. Not the detail around it. To reduce the risk of Partners developing based on things that may change.

Something like: 
Complete API documentation for the new VoP mutations and updated endpoints will be provided.

Author: @TheoGrnts You requested this section, how much do you want it there? :)

**Key token properties:**
- **Regulatory compliance**: Demonstrates VoP was performed
- **Time-limited**: Check `expiresAt` timestamp to ensure validity
- **Single-use security**: Each token works only once, preventing replay attacks

### API specifications {#api-specifications}

Complete API documentation for the new VoP mutations and updated endpoints.

#### verifyBeneficiary mutation {#verify-beneficiary-mutation}

New mutation for pre-validating beneficiary details before payment initiation.

#### initiateCreditTransfers mutation updates {#initiate-credit-transfers-updates}

Updated mutation to support beneficiary tokens for VoP compliance.

### Server-to-Server consent with VoP {#s2s-consent-vop}

Implementation guide for handling VoP verification results in Server-to-Server consent flows.

### Bulk credit transfers VoP management {#bulk-vop-management}

#### Opt-out of VoP {#bulk-opt-out}

For company accounts that need to disable VoP on bulk SEPA credit transfers.

#### Opt-in of VoP {#bulk-opt-in}

For company accounts that want to enable VoP verification on bulk transfers.

### Trusted beneficiaries & internal accounts {#trusted-beneficiaries-internal}

> VoP integration with Swan's trusted beneficiary system and internal account transfers.

Reviewer 2: "internal account transfers" -> replace with "Internal Credit Transfers" (correct swan wording)

> VoP integration with Swan's trusted beneficiary system and internal account transfers.

Author: ```suggestion
VoP integration with Swan's trusted beneficiary system and Internal Credit Transfers.
```

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

Verify beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

:::info Mandatory compliance
Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025**, for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.
:::

## Overview {#overview}

**Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a new European service that checks beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims to reduce payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.

### Key benefits {#benefits}

For your integration:

> - **Reduced disputes**: Prevent misdirected payments and customer support tickets
> - **Better user experience**: Build trust through transparent payment verification
> - **Operational efficiency**: Fewer payment failures and reversals to handle

Author: ```suggestion
- **Reduced disputes**: Prevent misdirected payments and customer support tickets.
- **Better user experience**: Build trust through transparent payment verification.
- **Operational efficiency**: Fewer payment failures and reversals to handle.
```

> For the end-users:

Author: ```suggestion
For your end-users:
```

> - **Fraud protection**: Ensure the funds go to the intended recipient
> - **Error prevention**: Catch typos and formatting issues early
> - **Payment confidence**: Know transfers will reach the intended recipient

Author: ```suggestion
- **Fraud protection**: Ensure the funds go to the intended recipient.
- **Error prevention**: Catch typos and formatting issues early.
- **Payment confidence**: Know transfers will reach the intended recipient.
```

> ### Coverage {#coverage}

Author: ```suggestion
### Geographic scope and timeline {#coverage}
```

> VoP applies to all countries in the SEPA zone. Payment Service Providers (PSPs) have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

Author: ```suggestion
VoP applies to all countries in the SEPA region. Payment Service Providers (PSPs) have varying implementation timelines based on their location:
```

| Payment Services Provider location | VoP mandatory date |
| --- | --- |
| 🇪🇺 Eurozone | October 9, 2025 |
| 🌏 Non-Eurozone | January 9, 2027 |

The service is **free of charge** for Swan account holders as mandated by the regulation.

## How VoP works {#how-vop-works}

### High-level flow {#high-level-flow}

VoP happens before sending money to a beneficiary, through this process:

> 1. **VoP required**: All SEPA Credit Transfers must be verified before authorization
> 2. **Verification request**: Swan sends VoP request to the beneficiary's bank (Responding PSP)
> 3. **Verification response**: The beneficiary's bank responds with verification result
> 4. **Result displayed**: VoP result and associated warnings are shown to the end-customer

Author: ```suggestion
1. **VoP required**: All SEPA Credit Transfers must be verified before authorization.
2. **Verification request**: Swan sends a VoP request to the beneficiary's bank (Responding PSP).
3. **Verification response**: The beneficiary's bank responds with the verification result.
4. **Result displayed**: VoP result and associated warnings are shown to the end-user.
```

    P-->>EU: Displays VoP results/warnings<br/>(Custom integration)
    S-->>EU: Displays VoP results/warnings<br/>(Default integration)

    Note over EU: Reviews the results

    EU->>EU: Decides: Proceed or Cancel

    %%{init: {
        'theme': 'base',
        'themeVariables': {
            'primaryColor': '#6240b5',
            'primaryTextColor': '#271a48',
            'primaryBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'lineColor': '#a18cd3',
            'secondaryColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryColor': '#ffffff',
            'background': '#ffffff',
            'mainBkg': '#ffffff',
            'secondBkg': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryBkg': '#6240b5',
            'activationBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'activationBkgColor': '#c0b3e1',
            'sequenceNumberColor': '#ffffff',
            'sectionBkgColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'altSectionBkgColor': '#ffffff',
            'gridColor': '#e5e7eb',
            'disabledBkgColor': '#f3f4f6',
            'disabledTextColor': '#9ca3af',
            'fontSize': '16px',
            'fontFamily': '"Inter", "Segoe UI", system-ui, sans-serif'
        }
    }}%%
```

> ### Possible VoP results {#vop-results}

Author: ```suggestion
### VoP results {#vop-results}
```

> The beneficiary's bank can return one of four verification results. **All results must be systematically displayed to the end-customer**. Swan will systematically display the VoP result and warning on the SCA consent screen.

Author: ```suggestion
The beneficiary's bank can return one of four verification results. **All results must be displayed to the end-user**. Swan will systematically display the VoP result and warning on the SCA consent screen.
```

      ![VoP No match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_no_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="not-possible" label="❌ Verification not possible">
    **Result**: IBAN verification failed. Check the IBAN format, try again, or contact the recipient's bank if the issue persists.
    
    **Customer action**: Proceed without verification
    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![Verification not possible mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_verif_not_possible.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::tip VoP enables informed decisions
Verification of Payee doesn't block payments. It provides verification results so customers can make informed decisions about proceeding or aborting. All verification results allow payment to continue.
:::

### Specific cases {#specific-cases}

#### Standing Orders {#standing-orders}

VoP applies to Standing Orders with two key differences:

> - **Initial verification only**: VoP happens only at the initiation stage when creating the Standing Order

Author: ```suggestion
- **Initial verification only**: VoP happens at the initiation stage when creating the Standing Order
```

> - **Existing Standing Orders**: Previously authorized Standing Orders do not need to be verified - only new Standing Orders created on or after October 9, 2025 will require VoP

Author: ```suggestion
- **Existing Standing Orders**: Previously authorized Standing Orders don't need to be verified - only new Standing Orders created on or after October 9, 2025, will require VoP
```

#### Bulk payments for company accounts {#bulk-payments}

> Company accounts can opt-out of receiving VoP on their bulk SEPA credit transfers through a dedicated mutation.

Author: ```suggestion
Company accounts can opt-out of receiving VoP on their bulk SEPA credit transfers through a dedicated upcoming mutation.
```

## Integration flows for VoP {#integration-flows}

> Swan offers two integration approaches depending on your UX requirements and development constraints to ensure partners can offer a compliant integration from Day 1:

Author: ```suggestion
Swan provides two integration options based on your user experience (UX) needs and development limitations to ensure a compliant integration.
```

<div className="row margin-bottom--lg">
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card" style={{height: '100%', backgroundColor: '#fffbf0', border: '1px solid #ffeaa7'}}>
      <div className="card__header">

>         <h3>Option 1:</h3>

Author: ```suggestion
        <h3>Option 1</h3>
```

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

Verify beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

:::info Mandatory compliance
Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025**, for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.
:::

## Overview {#overview}

> **Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a new European service that checks beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims to reduce payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.

Reviewer 2: same comment as before

### Key benefits {#benefits}

For your integration:
- **Reduced disputes**: Prevent misdirected payments and end-user support tickets.
- **Better user experience**: Build trust through transparent payment verification.
- **Operational efficiency**: Fewer payment failures and reversals to handle.

For your end-users:
- **Fraud protection**: Ensure the funds go to the intended recipient.
- **Error prevention**: Catch typos and formatting issues early.
- **Payment confidence**: Know transfers will reach the intended recipient.

### Geographic scope and timeline {#coverage}

> VoP applies to all countries in the SEPA region. Payment Service Providers (PSPs) have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

Reviewer 3: I'd avoid using the VoP accronym everywhere, except in schemes. So that it is clear everywhere no matter where you land in the docs.

| Payment Services Provider location | VoP mandatory date |
| --- | --- |

> | 🇪🇺 Eurozone | October 9, 2025 |

Reviewer 2: Add to VOP-000 if time allows: URL on Eurozone: https://economy-finance.ec.europa.eu/euro/what-euro-area_en

| 🌏 Non-Eurozone | January 9, 2027 |

The service is **free of charge** for Swan account holders as mandated by the regulation.

## How VoP works {#how-vop-works}

### High-level flow {#high-level-flow}

> VoP happens before sending money to a beneficiary, through this process:

Reviewer 3: I'd remove the accronym here.

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: replace with Verification of Payee (if Racene ok)

> 1. **VoP required**: All SEPA Credit Transfers must be verified before authorization.

Reviewer 3: And Instant SEPA Credit Transfers

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: add Instant SEPA Credit Transfers

> 1. **VoP required**: All SEPA Credit Transfers must be verified before authorization.

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: replace with Verification of Payee

> 2. **Verification request**: Swan sends a VoP request to the beneficiary's bank (Responding PSP).

Reviewer 3: can't we add a few details on what's in the request (like IBAN + name or company identifier)?
+ I'd remove the VoP accronym here
+ why adding Responding PSP here if we do not use Responding PSP later in the doc. Let's keep beneficiary's bank only, no?

            'primaryBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'lineColor': '#a18cd3',
            'secondaryColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryColor': '#ffffff',
            'background': '#ffffff',
            'mainBkg': '#ffffff',
            'secondBkg': '#f8f7fc',
            'tertiaryBkg': '#6240b5',
            'activationBorderColor': '#4e3391',
            'activationBkgColor': '#c0b3e1',
            'sequenceNumberColor': '#ffffff',
            'sectionBkgColor': '#f8f7fc',
            'altSectionBkgColor': '#ffffff',
            'gridColor': '#e5e7eb',
            'disabledBkgColor': '#f3f4f6',
            'disabledTextColor': '#9ca3af',
            'fontSize': '16px',
            'fontFamily': '"Inter", "Segoe UI", system-ui, sans-serif'
        }
    }}%%
```

### VoP results {#vop-results}

The beneficiary's bank can return one of four verification results. **All results must be displayed to the end-user**. Swan will systematically display the VoP result and warning on the SCA consent screen.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="match" label="✅ Match" default>
    **Result**: Exact match found between provided details and account holder information
    

>     **End-user action**: Safe to proceed with transfer

Reviewer 2: I don't think "Safe to proceed" is problematic or confusing here
Review in VOP-001 if needed

    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![VoP Match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="close" label="⚠️ Close match">
    **Result**: Close match with suggested correction from beneficiary's bank
    

>     **End-user action**: Review suggested name correction before proceeding

Reviewer 2: I think that's fine here to keep as it is, as the next immediate step that's new with VoP is to review the suggested name.  Then, they can cancel or proceed, but that's not specific to VoP. 

VOP-001: can review (unless Racene want it changed in VOP-000)

    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![VoP Close match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_close_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="no-match" label="❌ No match">
    **Result**: No match found between provided details and account holder information
    
    **End-user action**: Verify beneficiary details carefully before proceeding
    
    **Mobile consent screen**:
    <div style={{width: 'fit-content', margin: 'auto', border: '1px solid #e5e7eb', borderRadius: '8px', overflow: 'hidden'}}>
      ![VoP No match mobile consent screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/Mobile_no_match.png)
    </div>
  </TabItem>
  
  <TabItem value="not-possible" label="❌ Verification not possible">
    **Result**: IBAN verification failed. Check the IBAN format, try again, or contact the recipient's bank if the issue persists.
    

>     **End-user action**: Proceed without verification

Reviewer 3: We should mention the two possible actions IMO, i.e. they can proceed but they still can cancel.

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: here, I agree that it's ambiguous as it seems that's their only option - I'd add "Verify beneficiary details carefully before proceeding"

Verification of Payee provides verification results so end-users can make informed decisions, but doesn't block payments from proceeding.
:::

### Standing Orders {#standing-orders}

VoP applies to Standing Orders with two key differences:

- **Initial verification only**: VoP happens at the initiation stage when creating the Standing Order
- **Existing Standing Orders**: Previously authorized Standing Orders don't need to be verified - only new Standing Orders created on or after October 9, 2025, will require VoP

### Bulk payments {#bulk-payments}

Company accounts can opt-out of receiving VoP on their bulk SEPA credit transfers through a dedicated upcoming mutation.

## Integration flows for VoP {#integration-flows}

Swan provides two integration options based on your user experience (UX) needs and development limitations to ensure a compliant integration.

<div className="row margin-bottom--lg">
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card" style={{height: '100%', backgroundColor: '#fffbf0', border: '1px solid #ffeaa7'}}>
      <div className="card__header">
        <h3>🟡 Option 1: Default verification</h3>
      </div>
      <div className="card__body">

>         <p><strong>Swan automatically verifies beneficiary details when you initiate a credit transfer</strong></p>

Reviewer 3: The "you" is weird to me, the partner is not the one initiating the transfer, the end-user is

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: agreed, let's say 'when a credit transfer is initiated" instead

        <ul>
          <li>No additional development required for single SEPA Credit Transfers.</li>
          <li>Swan displays VoP results and warnings in the consent screen.</li>

>           <li>Best for: Quick compliance and existing integrations.</li>

Reviewer 3: We need to add a big CON to me. If they don't go for Option 2 and the end-users gets a No Match for example at consent, and clicks on Cancel, they'll be redirected to the standard redirect URL of the partner, and they won't know what to do (whereas they should update the beneficiary etc). So we should really insist here about the fact that Option 1 might lead to increase support tickets and UX confusion etc.

Reviewer 2: That one may need your input @racene-swan if it's ok to add on VoP-000 (my preference) but I agree that it's worth adding a warning

        </ul>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
  <div className="col col--6">
    <div className="card" style={{height: '100%', backgroundColor: '#f0f9f0', border: '1px solid #d4edda'}}>
      <div className="card__header">
        <h3>🟢 Option 2: Custom verification</h3>
      </div>
      <div className="card__body">

>         <p><strong>Swan verifies beneficiary details on-demand using the `verifyBeneficiary` mutation</strong></p>

Reviewer 2: No typo - we renamed it to "verifyBeneficiary" after the last RFC, to account for Internal Accounts and Trusted Beneficiaries. 
-> keep as it is

        <ul>
          <li>Complete control over VoP results presentation.</li>
          <li>Custom error handling and user guidance.</li>

>           <li>Best for: Enhanced UX and bulk payment flows.</li>

Reviewer 3: I would insist +++ that this is Swan strongly recommended option

Reviewer 2: Let's not add anything here to avoid over-loading the screen, and add something below when we go more into details on each option

        </ul>
      </div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

### Supported payment types {#payment-support}

| Payment Type | 🟡 Option 1: Default | 🟢 Option 2: Custom | VoP requirements |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Single Credit Transfers** | ✅ Supported | ✅ Supported | Required |
| **Bulk Credit Transfers** | ❌ Not Supported | ✅ Supported | Opt-out available for company accounts |

> | **Standing Orders** | ✅ Supported | ✅ Supported | Required in the scheduling phase |

Reviewer 3: we should refer to this as the initiation phase, as we did above

Reviewer 3: ok but then we should change it above to schedule as well, I remember seeing somehing where we mentioned initiate and not schedule

Reviewer 2: I've checked and don't see any mention of "initiate a Standing Order", I think we're good!

Reviewer 3: It was here: https://deploy-preview-344--incomparable-tiramisu-91a96a.netlify.app/topics/payments/credit-transfers/sepa/verification-of-payee/#standing-orders

We were saying "created", maybe we want to change it to scheduled then

## Option 1: Default verification {#option-1}

> For single credit transfers, partners don't have to do anything - Swan will run the VoP check at the initiation of the credit transfer and display the VoP result in the consent screen.

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: Ok to replace with "you"

> Option 1 is [not available for Bulk Credit Transfers](#payment-support). For bulk credit transfers, use Option 2 or if you have company end-users, opt-out of VoP using the dedicated mutation.

Reviewer 2: Ok, let's review this in VoP-001: given there's valid arguments for both options, I think the best is not to take a position in our docs, until we have alignment. 

Tbc, I'm in alignement with you in the spirit (better to do VoP that not) but it'll be worst if partners get rejections because we can handle the load, so I'd not explicitly push for something that we know isn't great atm. It'll be best when we do async bulk VoP which is likely something we'd like to do in Q1 2026.

<div style={{textAlign: 'center'}}>
```mermaid
flowchart TD
    subgraph Option1 ["🟡"]
        direction TB
        A1["User enters payment details"] --> B1["User submits payment"]
        B1 --> C1["Call initiateCreditTransfers"]
        C1 --> D1["Beneficiary verification (VoP)<br/>handled by Swan"]
        D1 --> E1["Consent screen with VoP result"]

>         E1 --> F1["Payment authorized"]

Reviewer 2: VoP-001: agree that we could add this in the second release. I think though it's ok in 1st release as we show the nominal case (success) 
That said, @racene-swan up to you if Maxence has the bandwidth to do that in VOP-000

        F2 --> G2["Payment authorized"]
        G2 --> H2["Transfer completed"]
    end
    
    classDef default fill:#ffffff,stroke:#6240b5,stroke-width:1px,color:#271a48,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef input fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef process fill:#f8f7fc,stroke:#c0b3e1,stroke-width:1px,color:#4e3391,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef success fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef transfer fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef custom fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef subgraph2 fill:#f0f9f0,stroke:#d4edda,stroke-width:2px,rx:16,ry:16
    
    class A2 input
    class B2,D2,E2,F2 process
    class C2 custom
    class G2 success
    class H2 transfer
    class Option2 subgraph2
```
</div>

### Verification flow {#verification-flow}

1. **Verify beneficiary**: Call the `verifyBeneficiary` mutation using an IBAN and account holder name.
2. **Receive the verification result**: Match, Close match, No Match, or Verification not possible. A unique token is also returned, identifying the VoP and result.

> 3. **Inform the end-user**: Display appropriate messaging based on the verification result.

Reviewer 3: messaging and actions options like update beneficiary, change name, etc.

4. **User proceeds**: The end-user can choose to proceed with the payment regardless of the result.

> 5. **Use token**: Add the beneficiary token to complete the credit transfer.

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: say " Add the beneficiary token to the input of the initiateCreditTransfers mutation" instead

6. **User gives consent**: Complete the payment authorization.

<details>

<summary>Detailed verification flow diagram</summary>

<div className="invisible-subgraph">

```mermaid
%%{ init: { 'flowchart': { 'curve': 'linear' } } }%%
flowchart TD

>     A["Enter beneficiary details"] --> B[Call verifyBeneficiary]

Reviewer 3: verifySepaBeneficiary

Reviewer 2: No, we renamed it to verifyBeneficiary.
Keep as it is

    classDef input fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef decision fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:20,ry:20
    classDef success fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef warning fill:#f59e0b,stroke:#d97706,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef error fill:#ef4444,stroke:#dc2626,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef process fill:#f8f7fc,stroke:#c0b3e1,stroke-width:1px,color:#4e3391,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef final fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef invisible fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,stroke-width:0px,color:transparent
    
    class A input
    class C decision
    class D success
    class E warning
    class F,G error
    class B,I,J,K,M,N process
    class L,O final
    class H invisible
```

</div>

</details>

#### Custom UX examples {#custom-ux-examples}

Examples of how to present VoP verification results in your web banking interface during the "Custom UX handling" step.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="match" label="✅ Match" default>

>     ![VoP Match web banking screen](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_match.png)

Reviewer 3: aren't we supposed according to the regulation to explicitely indicate that there's a match @TheoGrnts?

Reviewer 2: VOP-000: however, the first screen for "Match" isn't the right one -> we should use the next screen that shows the summary of the payment & VoP result. 
Figma
<img width="571" height="379" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-23 at 11 48 39" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1360025a-80e4-48c6-b5d2-44a703be96d7" />

      "beneficiaryToken": "vf_01234567890abcdef",
      "expiresAt": "2025-07-10T14:30:00Z"
    }
    ```
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Use verification token {#use-verification-token}

Add the `beneficiaryToken` to your credit transfer to demonstrate VoP compliance:

**Key token properties:**
- **Regulatory compliance**: Demonstrates VoP was performed.
- **Time-limited**: Check `expiresAt` timestamp to ensure validity.
- **Single-use security**: Each token works only once, preventing replay attacks.

### API specifications {#api-specifications}

Complete API documentation for the new VoP mutations and updated endpoints.

#### verifyBeneficiary mutation {#verify-beneficiary-mutation}

New mutation for pre-validating beneficiary details before payment initiation.

#### initiateCreditTransfers mutation updates {#initiate-credit-transfers-updates}

Updated mutation to support beneficiary tokens for VoP compliance.

### Server-to-Server consent with VoP {#s2s-consent-vop}

Implementation guide for handling VoP verification results in Server-to-Server consent flows.

### Bulk credit transfers VoP management {#bulk-vop-management}

#### Opt-out of VoP {#bulk-opt-out}

> For company accounts that need to disable VoP on bulk SEPA credit transfers.

Author: ```suggestion
For company accounts that need to disable VoP on bulk SEPA Credit Transfers.
```

#### Opt-in of VoP {#bulk-opt-in}

> For company accounts that want to enable VoP verification on bulk transfers.

Author: ```suggestion
For company accounts that want to enable VoP verification on bulk SEPA Credit Transfers.
```

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

> Validate beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

Author: ```suggestion
Verify beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.
```

:::info Mandatory compliance

> Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025** for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.

Author: ```suggestion
Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers under the [European Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025**, for all Payment Service Providers (PSPs) in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.
```

:::

## Overview {#overview}

**Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a new European service that checks beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims to reduce payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.

> 
> VoP will be particularly helpful to prevent Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, where fraudsters impersonate legitimate beneficiaries to misdirect funds.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

> Validate beneficiary details before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

Author: Edited to "Validate" if that works for you

---
title: Verification of Payee
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Verification of Payee

Verify beneficiary information before sending SEPA Credit Transfers to reduce fraud and payment errors.

:::info Mandatory compliance
Required for all SEPA Credit Transfers by **October 9, 2025** under EU regulation.
:::

## Overview {#overview}

**Verification of Payee (VoP)** is a mandatory European service that validates beneficiary details against account holder information before initiating SEPA Credit Transfers. This service aims at reducing payment fraud and errors by confirming that the beneficiary details match the account holder registered with the beneficiary's bank.

> VoP is required under the [European Commission's Instant Payments Regulation (IPR)](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/paym/integration/retail/instant_payments/html/instant_payments_regulation.en.html) published in March 2024, with a mandatory implementation deadline of **October 9, 2025** for all Payment Service Providers in the Eurozone offering SEPA Credit Transfers.

Author: Applied both!

### Key benefits {#benefits}

For your integration:

> - **Reduced disputes**: Prevent misdirected payments and customer support issues

Author: ✅

- **Regulatory compliance**: Meet mandatory EU requirements for SEPA transfers

> - **Enhanced UX**: Build trust through transparent payment verification

Reviewer: UX - user experience - first reference.

Author: 👍

For the end-users:

> - **Fraud protection**: Verify beneficiary details before sending payments

Reviewer: Full stops at the end.

- **Error prevention**: Catch typos and formatting issues early
- **Payment confidence**: Know transfers will reach the intended recipient

### Coverage {#coverage}

> Verification of Payee is applicable to all countries included in the SEPA zone. Payment Services Providers have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

Reviewer: Could it be "all countries in the SEPA zone"? included seems redundant.

> Verification of Payee is applicable to all countries included in the SEPA zone. Payment Services Providers have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

Reviewer: Verification of Payee applies to all countries in the SEPA zone. Payment Services Providers (PSPs) have varying implementation timelines based on their location:

| Payment Services Provider Location | VoP Mandatory Date |
| --- | --- |
| 🇪🇺 Eurozone | October 9, 2025 |
| 🌏 Non-Eurozone | January 9, 2027 |

> The service is **free of charge** for payers as mandated by the regulation.

Reviewer: Who are the payers? 

Do we mean payees?

    classDef input fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef process fill:#f8f7fc,stroke:#c0b3e1,stroke-width:1px,color:#4e3391,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef success fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef transfer fill:#22c55e,stroke:#16a34a,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:12,ry:12
    classDef custom fill:#6240b5,stroke:#4e3391,stroke-width:2px,color:#ffffff,rx:8,ry:8
    classDef invisible fill:transparent,stroke:transparent,color:transparent
    classDef subgraph1 fill:#fffbf0,stroke:#ffeaa7,stroke-width:2px,rx:16,ry:16
    classDef subgraph2 fill:#f0f9f0,stroke:#d4edda,stroke-width:2px,rx:16,ry:16
    
    %% Option 1 styling
    class A1 input
    class B1,C1,D1,E1 process
    class F1 success
    class G1 transfer
    class H1,I1 invisible
    
    %% Option 2 styling
    class A2 input
    class B2,D2,E2,F2 process
    class C2 custom
    class G2 success
    class H2 transfer
    
    class Option1 subgraph1
    class Option2 subgraph2
```
</div>

### Verification workflow {#verification-workflow}

1. **Verify beneficiary**: Call `verifySepaBeneficiary` with IBAN and name

> 2. **Get result**: Receive Match, Close Match, No Match, or Not Possible

Reviewer: Match, Close match, No match, Verification not possible

    
    ![Payment control verification not possible](../../../../images/topics/payments/credit-transfers/vop/PC_no_verif.png)
    
    </details>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Use verification token {#use-token}

Add the `verificationToken` to your credit transfer.

<!--
:

```graphql {11} showLineNumbers
mutation InitiateWithVerification {
  initiateCreditTransfers(
    input: {
      accountId: "$YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID"
      consentRedirectUrl: "$YOUR_REDIRECT_URL"
      creditTransfers: {
        amount: { value: "100", currency: "EUR" }
        sepaBeneficiary: {
          iban: "FR0000000000300000000056H80"
          name: "John Smith"
          verificationToken: "vf_01234567890abcdef"
          save: false
        }
      }
    }
  ) {
    ... on InitiateCreditTransfersSuccessPayload {
      payment {
        id
        statusInfo {
          ... on PaymentConsentPending {
            consent {
              consentUrl
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
-->

:::tip Why verification tokens matter
- **Regulatory compliance**: Demonstrates VoP verification was performed
- **Time-limited**: Check `expiresAt` timestamp to ensure validity

> - **Single-use security**: Each token works only once, preventing replay attacks

Reviewer: What are "replay attacks"?

Author: They're attacks where malicious actors reuse information to try to reach their ends. I could remove that over-specific mention, since swan has idempotency rules etc. that already shield the users from such attacks for the most part. It's not essential. 

lmk 😄

:::

## Saved beneficiaries {#saved-beneficiaries}

VoP integrates seamlessly with Swan's [trusted beneficiary system](./guide-add-beneficiary.mdx) to streamline repeat payments while maintaining compliance.

### First-time verification for saved beneficiaries {#verify-saved}

:::warning Important for existing integrations
Even saved beneficiaries require VoP verification for compliance after **October 9, 2025**.
:::

**Workflow for existing saved beneficiaries:**
1. Retrieve saved beneficiary details from your system
2. Call [`verifySepaBeneficiary`](#verify-mutation) with the saved IBAN and name
3. [Use the verification token](#use-token) when initiating the transfer
4. Future payments to the same beneficiary will still require verification

**Benefits of this approach:**

> - **Fraud prevention**: Validates beneficiary details haven't changed

Reviewer: Validates that the beneficiary's details haven't changed.

<!--
:

```graphql {12} showLineNumbers
mutation InitiateWithVerificationAndSave {
  initiateCreditTransfers(
    input: {
      accountId: "$YOUR_ACCOUNT_ID"
      consentRedirectUrl: "$YOUR_REDIRECT_URL"
      creditTransfers: {
        amount: { value: "100", currency: "EUR" }
        sepaBeneficiary: {
          iban: "FR0000000000300000000056H80"
          name: "John Smith"
          verificationToken: "vf_01234567890abcdef"
          save: true
        }
      }
    }
  ) {
    ... on InitiateCreditTransfersSuccessPayload {
      payment {
        id
        statusInfo {
          ... on PaymentConsentPending {
            consent {
              consentUrl
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
-->

This creates a trusted beneficiary record while demonstrating VoP compliance.

## Sandbox testing {#sandbox}

Test VoP verification with these mock beneficiary names in Swan's sandbox environment:

| Input Name | Result Type | Use Case |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `NO_MATCH` | `SepaBeneficiaryNoMatch` | Test no match handling |
| `BIC_NOT_FOUND` | `SepaBeneficiaryVerificationNotPossible` | Test verification unavailable |

> | `Close Match Test` | `SepaBeneficiaryCloseMatch` | Test partial match with suggestions |

Reviewer: We should be consistent and just reference it as close match - versus also Partial match - I believe some other providers may use Partial match?

| Any other name | `SepaBeneficiaryMatch` | Test successful verification |

<!--
### Example test scenarios

```graphql showLineNumbers
mutation TestNoMatch {
  verifySepaBeneficiary(
    input: {
      iban: "FR0000000000300000000056H80"
      name: "NO_MATCH"
    }
  ) {
    ... on SepaBeneficiaryNoMatch {
      __typename
      verificationToken
      expiresAt
    }
    ... on ValidationRejection {
      __typename
      message
    }
  }
}
```

```graphql showLineNumbers
mutation TestVerificationNotPossible {
  verifySepaBeneficiary(
    input: {
      iban: "FR0000000000300000000056H80"
      name: "BIC_NOT_FOUND"
    }
  ) {
    ... on SepaBeneficiaryVerificationNotPossible {
      __typename
      verificationToken
      expiresAt
    }
  }
}
```
-->

## Migration from legacy verification {#migration}

:::danger Breaking change

> The `beneficiaryVerification` query will be deprecated. Plan your migration before the October 9 compliance deadline to ensure uninterrupted service.

Reviewer: Can we write this the same as what's above? Or change to October 9th.
